hi it's a nice sunny morning and I've
got a few of my friends coming over to
my place so I'm just gonna cook off some
nice crunchy vegan caesar salad for them
so I'm doing a vegan Caesar salad the
original recipe has got anchovies and
eggs in it I'm going to do it without
the egg and without the anchovies
so around 7 a close of garlic it was
just nice and crushed garlic now pour
some salt over this and just kind of
mash it through so we're just chopping
the garlic now I'll use some bacon
mayonnaise which is without the eggs a
lot of people do ask me what is a vegan
and what is vegetarian the difference if
you are awakened you don't even have
dairy products so some nice and freshly
ground black pepper into this people use
a lot of red wine vinegar or red wine
into this but I'm just going to use a
humble lemon juice
they really adds that zing to the salad
and then with some cheese the best to go
with this is Parmesan so now I'm just
adding the cheese to it but as I was
saying if you are strictly a vegan you
can always use a soy-based cheese which
is non lactose I've got a nice whisk so
I'm just mixing the dressing now nice
and thick creamy if you feel it's too
thick you can add a bit more of lemon
juice or any vinegar vinegar tends to
thin down the dressing and it dressing
so a little bit more of lemon juice into
it lovely
now the Caesar dressing is ready you
have to be very particular about this
because this is what is going to give
the taste to a salad so let's taste it
first yummy as I would have wanted it
what next a Caesar salad is complete
without good croutons or nice crunchy
rustic bread now you can use a regular
white bread or a slice web you can use
any loaf if you have a slightly older
loaf I'm using a burger bun which is as
good as any loaf so just slice into it
here we go nice big chunks so no tiny
stuff here nice and big rustic croutons
into the pan first let's put this on
and then a good dollop of butter into
this now if you're slightly concerned
about making it more healthy what you
could do is you could sprinkle some
olive oil pepper like I am doing here a
little bit salt here that's it
some garlic flakes again as I said if
you wish you can always bake them in the
oven you can drizzle some olive oil if
you don't want butter butter you know
gives it that nutty crunchy taste so I
always prefer butter and in fact I'm
going to add a little bit so they're
nicely crisp up so my two tones are
getting ready yeah my dressing is
already ready now what is left is the
main salad of which I'm gonna use some
red peppers some yellow peppers nicely
diced almost done there let's put this
off so you can see this little garlic
that I was talking about it's all
crisped up which is what we want nice
and crispy golden brown lovely add this
to this just slightly cook it in the
same flavor that the garlic has given
out but not too much you don't want to
lose the crunchiness romaine for the
deep flavor and iceberg for the nice bit
of crunch so I'm going to mix equal
quantities of the romaine and the
iceberg you don't need to really go
delicate just trace this off same again
yeah just rip this apart once again nice
and crunchy large chunks you've got some
nice Romania and now with the iceberg
the same thing there's no need to use
your knife the fingers are good enough
so some nice and crunchy iceberg just
one important tip here if you're using
any kind of lettuce make sure it's
nicely washed because it's raw but the
most important aspect is you drain it
nicely otherwise there's going to be a
lot of water in your lettuce and that's
going to make a salad watery you don't
want that so some nice lettuce now no
excess water few nice cherry tomatoes
underneath my palm and here goes mind
knife like this okay so we've got this
Tomatoes into this this few whole maybe
yeah so nicely chopped sweet basil
leaves of course this is not statutory I
mean it's not compulsory to add basil I
like it because it gives a fresh feed
and flavor to the salad so we have got
this yep some black pepper into this if
you want it a little bit spicy you could
always add a bit of chili flakes to it
maybe a bit of Tabasco to it it's all
your taste now with the dressing a
little bit of the dressing inside not
too much you know dressing whenever you
add to a salad it's got lemon juice it's
got some kind of acidity so it what it
does it it makes your salad slightly
wilted and soft so dressing should be
added absolutely at the last minute when
almost you are ready to serve the salad
so I'm just going to pick it up nicely
with my fingers nice and light just lays
it in the center like this don't press
the leaves too much you don't want them
to sit down and then the lovely chain
tomorrow's some of them it's quick quick
now with the extra dressing just dollop
swap it around because too much is going
to make a salad watery so now with the
peppers and the cool tones here they go
all over the top lovely isn't it looking
amazing so tempting salads always if you
make them look good and if you really
get good flavor in it it's a meal by
itself and now the cheese that we have
left over goes on top lovely and the
last bit of black pepper on the top now
what I've done is I have just slightly
thinned down my dressing you can do it
with water
and just the thinned-out dressing Mamiya
my Caesar salad is ready I can't just
wait to dig into this hmm
I've made my own if you guys go to make
it you know how to do it so then why the
wait please world